docs(blog): contributor highlight David Wheeler (#295)
cloudnative-pg/cloudnative-pg.github.io: content/blog/contributor-highlight-david-wheeler/index.md

---
title: "Contributor Spotlight: David Wheeler"
date: 2025-05-14T21:51:43+02:00
draft: false
image:
    url: theory.jpg
    attribution:
author: fdrees
tags:
 - PGXN
 - pgTAP
 - Sqitch
 - postgresql
 - open-source
summary: "In a mini-series on this blog we highlight the work of the community.
  Today we meet David Wheeler, Principal Architect at Tembo, and PGXN 
  maintainer."
---

Building and maintaining an open source project takes a village. In a
mini-series on this blog we would like to highlight the work of our
maintainers, component owners, and members of the larger community.

This week the spotlight shines on David Wheeler, or: [_theory_](https://github.com/theory), 
Principal Architect at Tembo, and PGXN maintainer. You might have heard of 
David's work on pgTAP, a suite of database functions that make it easy to 
write TAP-emitting unit tests in `psql` scripts or xUnit-style test functions. 
Or Sqitch, the database change management application. He's also the "bull-

> headed guy who ported SQL/JSON Path to Go" (WIP). The man keeps busy... 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
headed guy who ported SQL/JSON Path to Go" ([Playground](https://theory.github.io/sqljson/)). The man keeps busy... 
```
